README.md, before:

# Ramka v2 Express API Server

Features:

- upload files to the server
- create thumbnail
- read exif data
- calculate md5 hash of the files
- parse CS filename

Stack and tooling:

- express.js
- mongoDB & mongoose
- eslint
- prettier
- jest & supertest
- multer
- dotenv
- nodemon

## API documetation

### Get collections by name

**Method** : `GET`

**URL** : `/collections/:collectionName`

Default collection name: `all`.

**Code** : `200 OK`

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "data": {
    "images": [
      "5f2a634e589dd26ca7e78952",
      "5f2a634e589dd26ca7e78953",
      "5f2a634e589dd26ca7e78954",
      "5f2a634d589dd26ca7e78950"
    ],
    "_id": "5f2a634c589dd26ca7e7894f",
    "name": "all"
  }
}
```

In case wrong collection name you get response as follow:

```json
{
  "success": false,
  "message": "Not found in the DB collection with name: pierogi"
}
```

### Get all image info form DB

**Method** : `GET`

**URL** : `/images`

**Code** : `200 OK`

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "data": [
    {
      "_id": "5f1ad600eb2d67505e03162e"
    },
    {},
    {}
  ]
}
```

### Get image info form DB by passing image \_id as request parameter

**Method** : `GET`

**URL** : `/images/:imageId`

**Code** : `200 OK`

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "data": [
    {
      "_id": "5f1ad600eb2d67505e03162e"
    }
  ]
}
```

In case wrong id you get response as follow:

```json
{
  "success": false,
  "message": "Not found in the DB image with _id: 666"
}
```

### Upload multiple images on the server

**Method** : `POST`

**URL** : `/images`

**Code** : `200 OK`

example response:

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "data": [
    {
      "_id": "5f1ad600eb2d67505e03162e",
      "imageUploadTimeStamp": "1595594240641",
      "imageUploadTimeStampISO": "2020-07-24T14:37:20.641Z",
      "imageOriginalName": "image-walczak-thesame.jpg",
      "imageFileName": "2d631774-784d-45a6-9de9-1e9b109e3b4f",
      "imageServerPath": "public/2d631774-784d-45a6-9de9-1e9b109e3b4f",
      "imageMimeType": "image/jpeg",
      "imageSize": 46898,
      "__v": 0
    }
  ]
}
```

## Setup

```
npm install
```

## Test

```
npm test
```

## Development

```
npm run dev
```

check eslint output:

```
npm run lint
```

## Scripts

reset database:

```
npm run resetdb
```

start server with reseted database:

```
npm run start:fresh
```

import images from local dir to the server
define source dir and server url end point in .env file as variabe:
POST_IMAGES_SOURCE=
POST_IMAGES_DESTINATION_URL=

```
npm run postimages
```

Commit message:

Containerize db for development
Setup mongo Docker container
Add mongo-express container
Refactor .env and sync with .env.example
Init mongoDB with credentials and setup connection
Remove other than to the docker connection methods to the DB
Update README.md

Changes to be committed:
	new file:   .dockerignore
	modified:   .env.example
	modified:   README.md
	new file:   docker-compose.yml
	new file:   docker-mongo-init-script.sh
	modified:   scripts/resetDB.js
	modified:   src/db.js
	modified:   src/index.js
	modified:   src/server.js
	modified:   test/server.test.js

README.md, after:

# Ramka v2 Express API Server

Features:

- upload files to the server
- create thumbnail
- read exif data
- calculate md5 hash of the files
- parse CS filename
- containerized database

Stack and tooling:

- express.js
- mongoDB & mongoose & mongo-express
- eslint
- prettier
- jest & supertest
- multer
- dotenv
- nodemon
- docker and docker-compose

## API documetation

### Get collections by name

**Method** : `GET`

**URL** : `/collections/:collectionName`

Default collection name: `all`.

**Code** : `200 OK`

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "data": {
    "images": [
      "5f2a634e589dd26ca7e78952",
      "5f2a634e589dd26ca7e78953",
      "5f2a634e589dd26ca7e78954",
      "5f2a634d589dd26ca7e78950"
    ],
    "_id": "5f2a634c589dd26ca7e7894f",
    "name": "all"
  }
}
```

In case wrong collection name you get response as follow:

```json
{
  "success": false,
  "message": "Not found in the DB collection with name: pierogi"
}
```

### Get all image info form DB

**Method** : `GET`

**URL** : `/images`

**Code** : `200 OK`

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "data": [
    {
      "_id": "5f1ad600eb2d67505e03162e"
    },
    {},
    {}
  ]
}
```

### Get image info form DB by passing image \_id as request parameter

**Method** : `GET`

**URL** : `/images/:imageId`

**Code** : `200 OK`

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "data": [
    {
      "_id": "5f1ad600eb2d67505e03162e"
    }
  ]
}
```

In case wrong id you get response as follow:

```json
{
  "success": false,
  "message": "Not found in the DB image with _id: 666"
}
```

### Upload multiple images on the server

**Method** : `POST`

**URL** : `/images`

**Code** : `200 OK`

example response:

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "data": [
    {
      "_id": "5f1ad600eb2d67505e03162e",
      "imageUploadTimeStamp": "1595594240641",
      "imageUploadTimeStampISO": "2020-07-24T14:37:20.641Z",
      "imageOriginalName": "image-walczak-thesame.jpg",
      "imageFileName": "2d631774-784d-45a6-9de9-1e9b109e3b4f",
      "imageServerPath": "public/2d631774-784d-45a6-9de9-1e9b109e3b4f",
      "imageMimeType": "image/jpeg",
      "imageSize": 46898,
      "__v": 0
    }
  ]
}
```

## Setup

```
npm install
```

## Test

```
npm test
```

## Development

Spawn contenerized instance of database:

```
docker-compose up -d
```

```
npm run dev
```

Check eslint output:

```
npm run lint
```

Docker-compose also spawns mongo-express container
to be able to check out db's records during development process
(no need of MongoDB Compass app).
This service is exposed on port: `8081`.

## Scripts

To reset database:

```
npm run resetdb
```

To start server with reseted database:

```
npm run start:fresh
```

Import images from local dir to the server
define source dir and server url end point in .env file as variabe:

```.env
POST_IMAGES_SOURCE=
POST_IMAGES_DESTINATION_URL=
```

and run command:

```
npm run postimages
```
